# fintech_project_2


# Overview
> This group project focuses on various aspects machine learning in the financial market. Each group member will examine a different ML aspect and/or paramter for a given issue(s).
***
# Eli - sentiment based analysis
Summary:
* Backstory into why I focus on sentiment so much
* Walkthrough of how sentiment in the news can impact investment decision making
* We'll talk about how you can use this information to train models for future use

Results:
* There are some significant flags from the fluctuations in price over 3 days
* We're able to see how the TextBlob mechanism may not accurately label new articles

Improvements:
* There's plenty of opportunity to help train the model on results classified manually as positive/negative sentiment
* Ensuring that articles align with the correct stock
* Expanding on the impact from the sentiment/news on investments

# Mike - Machine learning with a fcous on regression for price prediction.
Summary:
* A case study using TSCO as underlying issue for analysis
* Examine "manual" ML technique for a given signal/strategy compare to basline performance
* Utilize OpenBB regression machine learning model to predict future price with multiple models.
* Evaluate multiple regression models for price prediction using mean absolute percent error (MAPE) & SHAP plots

Results:
* Using the SHAP plot for regression models we can quickly determine the features with greatest impact on a given model.
* Utilizing the MAPE value as metric for measurement of model quality, we can evaluate multiple model parms (train split, covariates, length of prediction...) efficiently & quantitatively for effect.
* SHAP & MAPE findings can be used to guide future model construction.

Improvements:
* The next step in the analysis would be to examine/add multiple new features to the model and examine impact on model accuracy.
* As this was just a regression model analysis, another step would be to examine other predictive models and or neural networks.
* Once a model is found that achieves an acceptable accuracy/MAPE, trading strategies could be developed around model predictions.

# Omar - Training models to predict TSLA stock price
#### Using TSLA technical analysis and price data to train Sequential models with different layers, scalers, and activation functions to find the best for price prediction.
Model_1 - two layers, StandardScaler, and exponential & sigmoid activation functions

* Loss: 15596.7138671875, Accuracy: 0.0

Model_2 - three layers, MinMaxScaler, and elu & tanh & relu activation functions

* Loss: -3014.749755859375, Accuracy: 0.0

Model_3 - ten layers, QuantileTransformer, and only using relu activation functions

* Loss: 100.17599487304688, Accuracy: 0.0

Findings:
* Adding more layers, including the Dropout layers to help with overfitting, and using the same activation function seemed to reduce the loss.
* The QuantileTransformer scaler could have contributed to better model performance for price prediction.
* It is difficult to predict stock prices with accuracy based on technical analysis and price in isolation.

Room for improvements:
* Reducing the data to reduce outliers.
* Experimenting with batch size and shuffle parameters when fitting the model.
* Changing random state, test size, and shuffle when splitting the data.
* Adding or reducing the technical analysis metrics or using different data all together to train the models.
* Testing another model or creating a custom model.
* Utilizing different scaler functions to transform the testing and training datasets.

# Ron - Theta model forecast
* The Theta method is a time series forecasting method that uses a linear regression model to estimate future values based on past trends in the data. The chart generated by the code will help in visualizing the accuracy of the Theta model's predictions over time. 
* The code is using the openbb library to apply the Theta method of forecasting to the Amazon (AMZN) stock price data stored in the amzn variable over a 5-day period. The theta_chart() function is used to generate a chart showing the actual and predicted values of the stock's adjusted close price, which is specified using the target_column parameter. 
